Tell Us about Yourself (AWS/DEVEOPS)
I start my day with:
1) Checking Email/Tickets
2) Checking Notification from Monotiring system
3) Ensuring that there is not critical alert un attended
4) Provide help and support to Developers
5) Providing support for production servers
6) Automation Admin Repeatitipve Task.
7) Creating jenkins jobs for Deployment
8) Supporting existing infra and creating New servers.
9) Deploying Code on Dev & Prod servers.
10) Checking for proper approval before code release.

I am responsible for:
1) Build And Release Process
2) Managing User access on Resources (Grant/Revoke)  - Git
3) Managing Git Branches
4) Automation (Jenkins/Ansible/Docker/Kubernetes)
5) Server & Application supoort
6) Taking backup of instance and restoring if required.
7) Writing/modify playbook, dockerfile, k8s manifest file and shell scripting for automating daily taks.
8) Verify if all the services is runing  on that server are covered under monitoring system.

-----------------------------------------------

Total 8 kubernetes cluster is there
1) In devops how may server is there- 80 server
2) which tool use for ticketing -  Submit tool
3) how many server in kubernetes cluster - Total 8 k8 cluster, per cluster 9 servers. use openshift service of aws to handel k8 cluster.
4) how many server for ansible -  approx 80 servers
5) different between web server and application server- 
6) how many application - 
--------------------------------------------------------
production issues:   
1) outOfMemory exception while building jenkins job on Jenkins Slave server.
Resoulution: goto console and select slave server, then goto action and changed t2 class for increase memeory.

2) Failed Email notification on jenkins due to expire DL/group ID.
Resolution: dedicated admin team provide new DL/group id and i just configure eamil ID and port in Jenkins to getting notification.

3) Failed Deployment on Tomcat server due to tomcat credentials issues.
Resoulution: configure new id/pas in tomcate (tomcat_user.xml file) and configure same in jenkins in Deploy ware/ear to container block.

4) Connection failed between master and salave server in jenkins while building job.
Resolution: Again generate new key using ssh-keygen on jenkins master server and this key configure on all slave node server (Autherise-key file).

5) Not able to connect to EC2 instance from my local machine and as no such file or directory error.
Ans: key already downloaded in downloades dir and verified. then use ssh -i *.pem user@ip (URL copy from aws console)

6)  Unable to connect to GitHub/Bitbucket in jenkins
Ans: Click on Add button and provide Github credentials, select it from dropdown after adding it.
It should be GitHub credentials.

7) There is not POM in this directory?
Ans: Path of pom.xml was not spedified in the build job. click on Advance and add the path of pom.xml. in our case /MyWebApp/pom.xml

8) Tomcat Deployment failed or not able to access WebApp after deployment.
Ans: Tomcate deployment steps are not configured correctory in jenkins job. click on post build action, add deploy to container step and 
enter tomcat url and credentials. tomcat credentials are entered correctly as per tomcat-users.xml file. and aswell restart sudo systemctl restart tomcat9

9). Unable to access jenkins/Tomcat from the browser?
Ans: goto AWS console, select EC2 instance, click to connect and copy public dns name.

10) Tomcat deployment failed in jenkins - invalid user name and password.
Ans: it could be invalid id/pass and need to enter correct id/pass and select it from dropdown. edit id/pas in /var/lib/tomcat9/conf/tomcat-users.xml file

<role rolename="manager-script"/> <user username="tomcat" password="password" roles="manager-gui,manager-script"/>
sudo systemctl restart tomcat9
copy id/pas from tomcat-users.xml file and past in jenkin, Add credentials
----------------------------

1) AWS Ec2 instance connection timeout?  (issue RDP/SSH)
Ans: 

a) security group inbound rule add port 22) and also check ACL (inbound/outbound, port 22 with Access/denied)
b) check instance status runing or not, status should be 2/2
c) Need to check instance screenshot from Ec2 console. (goto Action > monitoring turbolshoot > system screenShot/system logs) to find issues.
d) Cloud trail- Any recent changes to that instance  (copy instance_id and search in cloud trail)
e) Instance should be in public subnet, means Internetgateway attached with rout table in VPC .
f) Ec2 stop/restart
g) Restore from latest snapshot backup.

2) AWS ELB turubleshooting/error:
Ans:

Application LoadBalancer not working and turbleshooting.
Client cannot connect to an internet-facing load balancer using DNS.  ( 502 Bad gateway, page isn't working)

a) LoadBalancer backend isntance status inservice/Healthy. And need to check target group.
b) if Load Balancer backend instances status is Out of Service/Unhealthy
c) Ec2 instance Status checks - 2/2 Checks Passed
   * 1/2 - N/W, Antivirus, EBS, Nw interface.
   * 0/2 - Need check with AWS| Backend H/w issue
d) Check security Group and NACL for required Port open or not (HTTP 80, HTTPS 443 in ELB, Ec2)
e) Load balancer health check configuration need to be verified. (Health check configuration tab is there)
f) Try to restart the application service inside of backend Ec2 instance. (systemctl restart httpd)
g) check for the ALB Forwarding rules configured properly.
h) check private vs public subnet. VPC has IGW or not.
i) Cloud Trail -> Any recent changes to that instance
j) stop/start Ec2 instance

3) AWS VPC Peering issues/Turbleshooting?
Ans: 

a) Check the Security Group in Source Ec2 and Destination Ec2 whether required ports are opened or Not.
b) Check the VPC peering status is Active or not in AWS console.
c) Check both the instance are connecting individually.
d) Check total no of Subnets in Source VPC and check its Properly- associated with the Route Table.
e) Check Source/Destination VPC Route Table whether Routing for peering is configured with proper CIDR or not.
f) Disable the software Firewall inside of Ec2 instances and check. (optional)

4) AWS S3 issues/Turbleshooting?
S3 bucket showing errors.
Ans:

a) Check what is the status of other S3 buckets, whether all buckets are showing error or not
b) Check IAM user/role has the following permission/policies:
   s3:GetAccountPublicAccessBlock
   s3:GetBucketPublicAccessBlock
   s3:GetBucketPolicyStatus
   S3:GetBucketAcl
   s3:ListAccessPoints

c) Possible login from the Root User and check what is the status of the error bucket.
d) Check the Bucket has any custom policy.

5) AWS Auto scaling issues/Troubleshooting: (below issues)

a)  Trobleshooting scaling issues with my Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group
b) EC2 Auto-scaling group isn't following the scaling policy|configured
c) Ec2 Auto-scaling group is scaling out insted of scaling in
d) scaling isn't responding to a Cloudwatch alarm or health check replacement
e) Auto-scaling my instance is stuck in the Pending:Wait or Terminating:Wait state during scaling activity
f) EC2 Auto-scaling group isn't responding to scheduled action

Ans:
a) Check your scaling policies to see whether an event trigger more then one policy.
b) Verify if a scaling-out and a scal-in policy are trigger at the same time
c) Check if your Auto-Scaling group already reached its minimum or maximum number of instances
d) Check if your instances are in a cooldown period and instance warmup
e) Check if there is a lifecycle hook configured for your EC2 Auto Scaling group.

6) AWS lambda issues:
Lambda event based Trigger not working
AWS lambda not getting Triggered

Ans:
a) Check the correct AWS Event bridge trigger properly configured mapped to the Lambda.
b) Check with Event based trigger configured with right JSON.
c) Check lambda code locally and confirm source code has any errors.
d) Check the lambda cloud watch log groups for any error or info
e) check lambda configuration setting all are configured properly.
f) Check whether Cloud Trail has been enabled for the region where lambda has been configured.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H7JqAM8_Qeo

i am ranjit kumar. i completed MCA as highest education in 2012. As of now i have total 8.6 years of exp in prod/aap/dev support. 
Since 4 years i am working as devops eng, in devops i have exp in AWS, Terraform, Git, Docker, Kubernetes, Oracle, Shell scripting.
i AWS no of services i used()











